# How the brain grows

## Introduction:

the brain isa vast system which allows the recovery of disturbances and also the growth of it as a whole. in this section we will be discovering how, why, and when the brain grows.

## When and how does the brain grow?

### when exactly?

- stimulating the brain
- when new information is learned
- when new information removes old information

### How does it “grow”?

When the brain learns new information, the brains neurons become more connections ( which means they can receive more messages from axons and other neurons). They do this by growing more dendrites. This process is called sprouting. Each new dendrite forms means one more connection with an axon of another neuron.

## Loss of information:

when information becomes “useless” or isn't used (either from new information or lack of use) the connections are broken and/or replaced with new ones. During the case of adolescent their is a massive pruning (death of useless synapses/information) of useless information

## Grey matter:

Grey matter represents the soma or the cell bodies of a Neurons, grey matter is located in the front part of the brain which is known as the cortex.  This is where most connections are replaced, broken, and formed. Grey matter is where processes like thinking and reasoning happens

## White Matter:

White matter represents the axon of a neuron. it is as equally important as grey matter is.
its primary purpose is to keep the neuron insulated and to speed up the transmission of pulses in the brain. Without white matter, grey matter will become useless and would end up killing the neuron.

## Growth and decline of the brain:

As stated before, the brain grows differently at certain ages, where soem ages its going to be massive incline and some with decline.